---
layout: post
title:  "J-League"
date:   2015-05-30
categories: Kobe
latitude: NA
longitude: NA
---

I've somewhat lost track of what day of the week it is - holiday mode is properly engaged! This morning, however, I realised that it was Saturday and I thought, "What do people like to do on a Saturday?" The answer: go watch people kick a ball around a field. The ball-kicking sport of choice in Japan is soccer, and the top-flight teams play in the J1 division of the J-League.

After consulting trusty Google I learnt that there was a game in the nearby city of Kobe, about 55 minutes away by local train from Kyoto. I didn't have tickets to the game, but I knew that these could be purchased at convenience stores. So I scribbled down the details of the match, Vissel Kobe vs. Vegalta Sendai, and jumped on the train.

Upon encountering the ticket machine at Family Mart, a mini-supermarket/convenience store, I realised I wasn't going to be able to do this myself and so I asked for the attendant's assistance. He was very gracious and patient, but we eventually realised the problem was that I couldn't buy a ticket from the machine without a Japanese phone number. He told me that I could instead buy a ticket at the stadium. Probably the easier option in hindsight, but it was another fun chance to try out my Japanese.

The atmosphere walking to the stadium from the subway line was great. Most fans were wearing the local team's maroon and black jersey. I arrived at the stadium about 90 minutes before kickoff as I'd heard that the entire stadium is like the MCC members: people get there very early and put down scarves, jackets or even just a bit of paper to call dibs on unreserved seats. I managed to get a seat about halfway up just off-centre in the 32,000 seat stadium, which was at maybe 65% capacity. However, 95% of those people were mad Kobe fans and they were making a lot of noise.

The diehard fans of each team sit behind the goals at either end of the stadium and sing, chant and play the drums flat-out prior to kickoff and throughout the match. Some of the numbers the Kobe fans had adapted for the occasion where the riffs from _Smoke on the Water_ by Deep Purple and _The Entertainer_ by Scott Joplin, alone with the seemingly universal _When the Saints go Marching in_ and _The Ants Go Marching_. The Sendai diehards, small in number but loud in voice, returned fire with _We're Not Gonna Take It_ by Twister Sister and _Hey Ho, Let's Go_ by __WHO__. Bloody marvelous.

Unfortunately for the locals, Sendai won 1-0 despite Kobe doing most of the attacking. The Japanese fans are very passionate but equally polite. This politeness extended to applauding the sponsors names that were read out prior to kickoff (well, most of them; some received a deathly silence for reasons I couldn't comprehend).

## TODOs

- Fact check
- Photos
- What do Vissel and Vegalta mean?
