---
layout: post
title:  "Shibuya"
date:   2015-05-16
categories: Tokyo
latitude: 35.658482
longitude: 139.701334
---

Tokyo has [many famous shopping districts](http://www.japan-guide.com/e/e3053.html) such as Ginza and Shibuya. Not being much of a shopper myself, these wouldn't normally be on my must-see list. However, I'd heard from several people that is was worth checking out one of the major department stores (デパト). It just so happened that some of the folk I did the cycling tour with had also recommended a sushi restaurant that had an outlet in Shibuya, so I combined the two.

As I had to get many places in Tokyo, I caught the subway to Shibuya. The Tokyo subway is a very convenient way to get around this huge city. It's also cheap, most trips costing me the equivalent of $2. Arriving around lunchtime, I first went to the adjoining Shibuya Japan Rail (JR) station to exchange my voucher for a JR pass, which I would be using over the next three weeks.

In hindsight, I should have first headed to the restaurant. Running a ticket system like a deli, Umegaoka Sushi no Midori is clearly a popular spot (mostly with folk in Tokyo for the day shopping and sightseeing was my impression). Collecting ticket number 96 as they called through number 57 was slightly dispiriting. Fortunately I had my book with me and was in no hurry (unlike the woman I ended up sitting next to at lunch; she was racing straight from lunch to the airport for her flight back to Hong Kong). Once inside, I had a seat at the bar with a great view of the half dozen chefs working away. It was a fun place to eat some affordable sushi.

Following lunch, I wandered through the 12 (!) levels of the Tokyu department store. Tokyu and its rival Seibo are the two big players in town. The most obvious difference to department stores in other countries, particularly Australia, is the staff. There must be hundreds, if not thousands, working in the Shibuya Tukyo store, and customer service is of huge importance. おみやげ (souveneirs) are wrapped with pain-staking care and attention.

Apart from observing these interactions between customers and staff, most floors held little interest to me. The exception (once again) was the food court; think of the David Jones basement writ large. All the food was artfully presented but two items stood out, cakes and fruit. There were many types of magnificent looking cakes but the sponge cakes, where apparently the more absorbent looking the better, were spectacularly perfect in their uniformity. In Japan, [fruit is often given as a wedding gift](http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/food-and-drink/features/why-is-fruit-so-expensive-in-japan-9605105.html). Not your bog ordinary banana, mind you. Think a pair of $12 apples (enormous; why are apples so big in Japan?), a $100 pair of mangos or 54 cherries in a box for $140.
