---
layout: post
title:  "Aquarium"
date:   2015-06-08
categories: Osaka
latitude: 34.654474
longitude: 135.428964
---

After a very friendly welcome to Osaka, today I was on my own. Osaka isn't particularly renowned for sight-seeing, and the people I had met at hostels along the way weren't overly enthusiastic about it as a tourist destination. Nonetheless, there were a few things I knew of that I wanted to check out, one being the Osaka Aquarium (known as the Kaiyūkan, 海遊館).

I haven't been to many aquariums, at least when compared to the number of zoos I've visited. I have vague memories of visiting the Melbourne Aquarium several years back, and, later this year, I'll be able to re-visit the excellent National Aquarium in my new hometown of Baltimore.

The displays at Kaiyūkan were excellent, but I had a lingering discomfort about seeing some of the animals in the inevitable confines of a tank. This feeling was at its strongest seeing the enormous whale shark and the very active Pacific white-sided dolphins. I've no doubt the animals are well cared for and the facilities are world-class, so this is more about me trying to figure out why I was more acutely aware of these animals' captivity than others at the aquarium or, more generally, animals in zoos. All in all, it was very interesting visit.  I especially loved watching the rays glide seemingly effortlessly through water.

The afternoon was drizzly, and I really just wandered around Namba, the south area of Osaka, without much of a plan. I'd read about a friendly Irish pub, so headed there for a drink in the evening. After some difficulty in finding the place, being inside on the second floor of a building with seemingly no signage, I walked into a small but completely empty room. The most promising sign was that they were playing Stevie Ray Vaughan over the speakers, so at least, I thought, I'll have some good tunes while I have a quiet beer by myself.

Fortunately, the chap behind the bar turned out to be a very interesting bloke. Luke was originally from Belgium, via New Zealand, Australia and Japan, loves blue music, and was more across Australian news and politics than most people I know back home. He had plenty of tales to tell, and we chatted for a couple of hours before anyone else turned up. Eventually some locals arrived and I joined them for a chin wag. Much to my amusement, some Japanese women told me that I looked like the star of Prison Break, Wentworth Miller. The resemblance is uncanny, I'd say...

It turned into a really fun night and when I went to pay the bill was somehow only $15 for 4 pints and a top-shelf whisky. Reckon I might find myself back there.

# TODOs

- Photographs
